


2. Course Introduction
StatusDone
Harald Rating
Amino Rating
Introduction
If youʼve made it this far, it means youʼre interested in becoming great. Thatʼs a 
good sign – that means youʼre driven. If youʼre able to stay driven throughout this 
course, you will become great.
Youʼve already been introduced to me, so now letʼ   s introduce you to this course:
The Course Basics
This course consists of practical, and theoretical steps (papers) that will help 
you fundamentally understand why certain videos go viral, and others don't.
This is a “two-sided courseˮ. One for writing, written by Nick, and one for 
editing, lead by me. Sometimes these courses overlap, like in the paper 
“Understanding YouTubeˮ.
Together, these two sides cover everything that makes you a great YouTuber – 
but learning both sides takes years and years. So for now, letʼ  s focus on 
making you a great editor.
We learn from this guide by studying the papers first, then applying them in a 
“test edit.ˮ By studying each paper before applying it to our test edit, we can 
more easily grasp and practice the complex concepts weʼre teaching.
The People
2. Course Introduction1

The editing part is written by me and a select few of the best editors in the 
industry.
The instrumental, along with the flow and sound design papers, were written 
by Armin Nemeth. He was the original editor on Dr. Insanity three years ago 
and is widely regarded as one of the best at conveying emotion through 
editing. Across all his videos, Armin has amassed over 400 million views.
The ‘Clip Selectionʼ p aper was written by Ayoub Chicha, an excellent lead 
editor whoʼs been with the team for nearly two years. Starting as a junior, he 
now manages three editors and has accumulated over 200 million views across 
his career with us.
The Technical Guide was written by Nick Rice. With a background in high-level 
graphics and communication, and over two years leading all VFX on the 
channel Rebound, Nick is an exceptional problem solver and a true graphics 
genius. Check out his work here.
The Papers
The theoretical side of this course consists of papers, helping detail out some 
of the most important aspects of video creation.
There are a total of 7 papers, split up in 3 segments, explaining each aspect of 
viral storytelling (editing).
Youʼre already on paper 1.
The Very Basics
 Course Introduction This Paper)
 Editing Fundamentals - An overview of a great video.
 Understanding YouTube - What makes a good YouTube video perform 
well?
 Making the viewer happy - What hooks a viewer to watch 30 minutes?
 Clip Selecting - How to properly communicate through visuals
The Deeper Skillset
 Flow, Pacing and Sound Design - Make your audience FEEL the video.
2. Course Introduction2

 Instrumentals - The most underrated, but probably most important part of 
editing.
Technical
 Technical - Sound mixing, Color Correction, Rendering: Make your video 
perfect.
After youʼve gone through all of these guides: You will, most likely, already be 
significantly better. After that, itʼs about practicing, and implementing all of this 
to your craft – eventually making you great.
Letʼ  s go into the practical.
The Practical
In this course, you will receive a thumbnail, script, narration, and footage – all 
from a real video we plan to post – as well as access to our “Assets Pack Mini.ˮ 
Your goal is to create a perfect 1.5-minute intro + first section to a YouTube 
video.
If the trial is good enough to post when youʼre finished, you get to continue on 
the full video. If thatʼs good enough to post, you will be fully paid as one of our 
real editors.
To achieve this, you will have to study the different papers previously 
mentioned in a very specific order which I will mention in a second. After each 
paper, you will receive a short quiz on itʼs contents – this is to challenge your 
learning & make sure youʼre picking up on what you read.
The papers, and practical work, will be done in this order:
 Read introduction (this paper)
 Reading Papers: Before even getting started on the 1.5 minutes, we want 
you to read through 3 fundamental papers - that lays the groundwork of 
your YouTube knowledge. These papers include:
a Editing Fundamentals
b Understanding YouTube
c Making the viewer happy (intro + more)
d Clip Selecting
2. Course Introduction3

 Quiz: Make sure you actually learnt things from the papers.
 Editing 1.5 minutes: After having studied these papers, youʼre good to start 
working on the first 1.5 minutes. By this point you have a pretty good idea 
of what makes a great video great. Work on this until youʼre happy with the 
results – and ensure these 1.5 minutes follow the guides youʼve read so far 
in detail.
 Review: At this stage, you should submit your results to your lead 
contact. They will evaluate your work to determine whether itʼs worth 
continuing the course for you.
 Approval/Denial: If your lead contact decides youʼre good enough to 
become great, you will get access to 2 more guides.
 Reading Papers: Here you get access to two very crucial guides to making 
a great video
a Flow, Pacing and Sound Design
b Instrumentals
 Quiz: Make sure you actually learnt things from the papers.
 Editing 1.5 minutes: After having studied these papers, you will likely 
catch a lot of mistakes with your current trial. The goal is to update, 
refine and fix your 1.5 minutes to follow all the new things youʼve learnt 
from these two guides.
 Review: At this stage, you should submit your results to your lead 
contact. They will evaluate your work to determine whether itʼs worth 
continuing the course for you.
 Approval/Denial: If your lead contact decides youʼre good enough to 
become great, you will get access to the final guide.
 Reading Papers: If you get approved, you will get access to the final guide.
a Technical
 Quiz: Make sure you actually learnt things from the paper.
 Review: At this stage, you should submit your results to your lead contact. 
If they decide your video is good enough, it will make it all the way to me.
2. Course Introduction4

 Review by me: If youʼve made it this far, it means youʼre pretty damn good. 
However, we have exceptionally high standards. At this point I will review 
your video, and decide if youʼre good enough to be brought onto the team.
 Intro  F  undamentals
a Before even getting started on the 1.5 minutes, we want you to read 
through 3 fundamental papers - that lays the groundwork of your 
YouTube knowledge. These papers include:
i Editing Fundamentals
ii Understanding YouTube
iii Making the viewer happy (intro + more)
iv Clip Selecting
b Complete a quick quiz to confirm youʼve absorbed the basics.
 First 1.5 Minutes
a After having studied these papers, youʼre good to start working on the 
first 1.5 minutes. By this point you have a pretty good idea of what 
makes a great video great. Work on this until youʼre happy with the 
results – and ensure these 1.5 minutes follow the guides youʼve read so 
far in detail.
b Submit your work for a Review.
 Review
a At this stage, you should submit your results to your lead contact. They 
will evaluate your work to determine whether itʼs worth continuing the 
course for you.
 Advanced Guides
a Here you get access to two very crucial guides to making a great video
i Flow, Pacing and Sound Design
ii Instrumentals
b Complete another quick quiz.
2. Course Introduction5

c Refine/update your 1.5 minutes based on what you learned, then submit 
again for a Review.
 Second Approval or Denial
a If approved, you get the final guide.
 Final Guide
a Read the “Technicalˮ guide, do the final quiz, and polish your 1.5 
minutes.
b Submit your final version to your lead contact.
 Final Review
a At this stage, you should submit your results to your lead contact. They 
will evaluate your work to determine whether itʼs worth continuing the 
course for you.
b If youʼve made it this far, it means youʼre pretty damn good. However, 
we have exceptionally high standards. At this point I will review your 
video, and decide if youʼre good enough to be brought onto the team.
Thatʼ   s it. Fewer steps, same process. Hope it feels less overwhelming!
Outro
In other words, we have a very rigid system to make you great. If you can pull it 
off, I will personally help you make it perfect. If you manage that, youʼre hired.
Now letʼ   s get into the guides.
2. Course Introduction6