


1. The Editing Manifesto
StatusDone
Harald Rating
Amino Rating
Before you get started
Iʼll st art by saying this: If youʼre an editor looking to make some quick, easy, 
money on freelance projects, no strings attached – let your lead contact know, and 
we will go separate ways. No hard feelings, we will simply not be compatible, and 
thatʼ  s entirely fine.
If youʼre looking to become an exceptional, sought after, editor; and make a 
successful career in editing  – this is exactly where you want to be.
Weʼre only interested in hiring people who want to become great. People who love 
creating content, just like we do: those who are ready to aim high, grow with us, 
learn from their experience, and eventually reach a point where they lead an 
editing team, manage a YouTube channel, or, better yet, collaborate with us on 
even bigger projects.
We will never waste time on an editor who doesnʼt want to become great.
In the last seven months, we have grown from:
4 employees → Over 30 employees
800K subscribers → Over 2.2M subscribers
Low-quality clickbait videos → The highest-quality true crime 
documentaries on YouTube
This isnʼt luck. Itʼ s the result of a dedicated team working together to improve and 
build something remarkable.
1. The Editing Manifesto1

Context - Backstory & Philosophy
Backstory
Iʼ m Harald, co-founder of MATCHER (along with Nick) and the production manager 
for all Insanity projects.
Four years ago, I started my journey on YouTube by editing per-video projects – 
just like the role you're starting with us. Those gigs eventually sharpened my skills 
to the point where random channels wanted to hire me full-time. However, with 
school, I wasnʼt ready to commit.
After a year of working part-time as an editor on the side of school, I finally made 
the leap: I quit school and moved to Washington, D.C to work for a channel called 
Rebound, where I led a team of four editors for two years.
Eventually, Rebound had taught me everything they could: I felt I had to start 
something on my own.
I left D.C. and started my own venture with my business partner Nick: Dr. Insanity
We now live in L.A. and are working fiercely to make Dr. Insanity into something 
absolutely huge: bigger than just a YouTube channel.
Why this matters
These experiences shaped my belief in a very specific philosophy. Anyone can go 
from YouTube side gig projects, to running entire channels: itʼs all about 
opportunities, time, and dedication.
We will provide you with the opportunity to take this path – to learn from some of 
the very best. In return, you will provide us with your time and dedication to 
ensure that the knowledge and effort we invest in you donʼt go to waste.
I promise you, if you put in the effort, we will turn you into a highly, highly, sought-
after editor.
And if you become a highly sought-after editor, you will secure full-time work with 
us guaranteed: and if you donʼt wish to work for us, guaranteed elsewhere too.
How this will work
1. The Editing Manifesto2

This position offers a clear path for growth within Dr. Insanity. All new editors start 
with Insanity Bodycam, where we pay an average of $400 per video.
We provide you with assets, templates, instrumentals, and any tools you might 
need to succeed. But most importantly, we provide our in depth training courses, 
and direct feedback on your videos.
Nick and I, the owners, have collectively amassed over 10 billion views across all 
platforms. Nick was IShowSpeedʼs manager until just a few months ago:  believe 
it or not, heʼs the one who originally helped him blow up. I got bored last week, 
and decided I wanted to blow up on TikTok again - so I did it.
We know what makes a viral, great video; and if youʼre willing to learn, we will 
teach you.
Editors who demonstrate exceptional dedication, genuinely listen, and apply our 
feedback will advance to our main channel: Dr. Insanity. There, youʼll st art as a 
freelancer paid hourly. If you can handle the higher skill level, weʼll soon bring you 
on as a full-time editor.
If youʼre curious about this, I can set up calls with our editors whoʼve already 
taken this path.
Compensation
Part-time
Base rate: $15 per minute of final video
Typical video length: 1530 minutes
Potential earnings: Up to $450 per video. Minimum pay $200.
Performance bonuses available If you do great work we will reward you, 
simply because we need great people around.)
Keep in mind 99% of motion graphics are already done with templates, and 
bodycam would be linked in the script with timestamps.
Starting Full-time (Junior)
Full-time work 8 hours / day, 5 days / week)
1. The Editing Manifesto3

1 Week Paid Vacation
Base salary: $2,000 monthly
This goes on for up to 6 months, then  $2,500 monthly salary and 2 weeks 
paid vacation
Full-time (Senior → Lead Editor)
Monthly salaries  Position
$3,000 Senior)
$5,000 Lead)
$7,000 Manager)
Anyone and everyone can climb the ladder in our company: All that matters is your 
commitment to learning & growing.
The Insanity Training Course
As Iʼ  ve said before, we only work with people who want to become great. For that 
reason, weʼve developed a very unique training program for driven editors.
Our training program is hands-on – youʼll be working on a real video that we plan 
to post. If this video becomes good enough for us to post anywhere, you will be 
paid for all your time.
In other words:
If you spend the time to properly follow and learn from this course, not only will 
you become a much greater editor, but you can also be confident that your time 
will be well compensated.
With all of this said:
If youʼre ready to become great, message your lead contact and they will set up 
the beginning of your journey with us.
Take Care,
Harald
1. The Editing Manifesto4