


NICKS: What Makes a Good 
Video? | A Complete Guide
What Makes a Good Video? | A Complete Guide
This guide is written with the objective of shifting your perspective to see things 
that most won't, enabling you to create a video that surpasses the competition.
To do this, weʼll br eak it down with the following sections:
Video Atmosphere
Pacing/Holding Retention
Sound Design
Motion Graphics
Intro
Video Atmosphere
Weʼll always say that the general “vibeˮ of a video is the most crucial part of a 
good video.
The vibe or atmosphere sets the entire tone for the video.
To make the best content, itʼ    s important the vibe is very clear. The second you 
click, it's obvious what emotion the video is geared towards.
This is all to add intrigue. If you click to see a bland, emotionless video– you feel 
nothing. Thereʼs no emotional tie from video to viewer.
Typically you should look to stick within one of these vibes:
Intense
Emotional
Funny (has to be extremely funny)
NICKS What Makes a Good Video? | A Complete Guide1

eerie
When setting a vibe for a video, try to think in the most generic, logical way 
possible.
For example, if I'm looking to write a crime video titled “A Detective Realizes The 
Suspect Is Dyingˮ The obvious vibe would be extremely eerie and shocking. I 
would look to make the viewer have their mouth wide open after just 20 seconds 
of watching.
Use super ominous instrumentals, loud risers, impacts, etc. to convey this vibe to 
the fullest.
Create an emotional atmosphere behind every video, or else it will carry no 
weight.
FWI We made this video. Go check it out, let me know how we did)
Link
Also– instrumentals are crucial in setting the vibe. Pay very close attention to 
instrumental choices, especially in the beginning of the video. Don't be afraid to 
try 5 different instrumentals until you find the perfect fit.
Pacing/ Holding Retention
Video pacing can fluctuate heavily depending on the type of content your 
producing, but there are a few fundamentals that follow for all.
Optimization
Always look to cut as much fat as possible without destroying storyline context. 
There should be very little dead space, and any bits of commentary irrelevant to 
the direct storyline of the section should be removed.
The majority of comments I make on video drafts are “Cut this clip to be ½ as 
longˮ
When watching a video back, pay attention to moments where your brain starts to 
think about something else or dozes off. This is typically a sign your pacing is too 
slow.
Variety
NICKS What Makes a Good Video? | A Complete Guide2

Make sure your video doesn't have extremely repetitive pacing throughout. For 
example, if you have 4 sections all exactly equal in length, the video starts to feel 
drawn out– almost like a song with no verses or switch-ups.
Aim to have some longer sections, followed by some short, followed by medium 
ect.
Instrumental Swaps
Any time something changes in your video, whether it's a section ending, or 
intensity ramping up– look to swap instrumentals.
Even if the vibe of the instrumental is exactly the same, just having a new melody 
come in can be extremely reengaging.
You can very easily swap instrumentals by swapping on an impact or riser, or 
taking the ending bit of the instrumental and placing it where your looking to 
swap.
Sound Design
Sound Design is super underrated, it's like the icing on the cake.
If you get brought onto the team, we will give you a a sound effects library with 
every sound effect you will ever need. For any trial youʼre making, I want you to 
pick the sound effects yourself. Try to make it as strong as possible.
In terms of adding SFX, make sure there's plenty of rises & crashes during any 
swap or dramatic moment. These just add that extra bit of taste, and can be 
paired with visual effects.
Also pay attention to audio mixing, specifically the instrumental volume on mobile– 
and the quality of VO on mobile. Bad mixing is a massive turnoff for most viewers.
The last thing you want is for a viewer to click off an amazing video because you 
forgot to raise the VO volume.
Motion Graphics
This is like the most annoying part of making a good video lol.
Motion graphic standards on YouTube are higher than what the average editor can 
produce, so it's really hard to get something made quickly thats as good as most 
YouTube videos.
However, there are a few methods to combat this
NICKS What Makes a Good Video? | A Complete Guide3

To understand what good motion graphics look like, refer to this video we worked 
on a couple months ago.
Meet The 6'10 Ai Robot NBA Players Fear..
Notice how all graphics are extremely smooth, and add a feeling of high 
production quality. We want everything to flow nicely, are balanced and 
symmetrical– And most important, LOOK COOL. Motion graphics just need to look 
cool.
Heres an example of a well-made article animation, vs a poorly made animation
Good:
Pay attention to the attention to detail, and general aesthetic. This looks 
professional
Bad:
NICKS What Makes a Good Video? | A Complete Guide4

What am I looking at... (someone actually charged us for this)
Do not settle for the bare minimum in this scenario. If you're contemplating 
whether an animation is good enough, itʼs probably not.
Also– look to add visual pointers in as many areas as possible. Refer to this video 
for examples When The Suspect Is Smarter Than The Detective
We constantly point things out via arrow or text. This just adds a bit more visual 
information to keep people interested.
NICKS What Makes a Good Video? | A Complete Guide5

Intro
Intros convince the viewer whether or not to watch the video. How exactly can we 
maximize the chance a viewer will stay?
Confirming Thumbnail
Itʼ s important to note that the viewer clicked on a very specific image and title, so 
if they don't receive what they clicked on right away, it's a major turn-off. Notice 
how all of MrBeastʼ  s videos immediately deliver on whatever is being shown in the 
thumbnail and title.
Visual/ VO Bait
Generally, try to “baitˮ the viewer into watching both visually, and in the script. For 
example, if the title is “When Fathers Confront Their Son's Killersˮ  I would look to 
have VO say “But some dads will go to extreme measures, just to get revenge..ˮ 
and visually show a father about to punch the suspect, then cut to black with a 
build-up riser. Iʼ ve just baited the viewer to watch the whole video just so he can 
see that clip.
PLEASE don't lie or false promise on the bait. This will cause viewer distrust, and 
they will stop clicking on future videos. This is why “Clickbaitˮ Y  ouTubers always 
fall off if they don't adjust.
NICKS What Makes a Good Video? | A Complete Guide6

Extremely Fast Pacing
This is pretty obvious, but make sure your intro pacing is faster then the actual 
video. Aim to have all of the bait and hooks completed within 15 seconds.
Here is a very simple first-minute checklist to follow until you start getting the 
hang of things-
First 100 Checklist NOT STRICT
Very simple and quick visual and VO hook (bait)
Visuals are very on point to what VO is saying
Instrumentals are very engaging and fresh feeling
As many WOW moment edit opportunities as possible. Video feels high quality
Include a line saying there will be multiple sections if the video has multiple 
sections
Fast-paced vocals
At least 1 dramatic switch, ideally around 45-second mark
A few arrows, or circles pointing out something
If youʼve read this whole doc, thank you for investing into this company. I assume 
if you take the time to read all of this you will thrive with us. Let's kill it together.
Now read this all over again because I guarantee you didnʼt retain enough.
NICKS What Makes a Good Video? | A Complete Guide7