

INSANITY INTRO GUIDE 
 
Hey all! I'm Nick, owner of Dr Insanity and its subsidiaries. 
 
2025 will be a big year for the channel(s), as we hope to break all the boundaries in the True 
Crime space. I personally have the goal of helping create the most talented and well-respected 
team of creatives I possibly can. 
 
As I'm sure most of you are aware, the intro is the most important part of a YouTube video. The 
intro sets the entire ceiling for a video – it intrigues the viewer, makes them feel inclined to learn 
the outcome of the story, and gives them enough information to quickly determine if the video 
concept is something they want to watch. 
 
Think about it: 
 
Our videos can sometimes span up to an hour long. We have 30 seconds to convince the 
viewer to watch an entire hour-long video! 
 
The number of possible intro variations is almost infinite, so building the most accurate intro can 
be quite the challenge. Hopefully, this guide can help you better understand what a “good” intro 
should look like, so that building highly intriguing intros will no longer be a challenge. 
 
Technical Understanding of Intros 
 
I’d first like to start this guide by pre-facing the algorithmic reason why intros are so important. 
 
What makes a YouTube video get millions of views? 
 
YouTube determines a video’s quality by ranking it against other videos in a similar niche. A 
video’s quality is measured using a whole array of micro analytics, but the two most key metrics 
to understand are: 
 
Click-through rate (CTR): What % of people who see your video, click on your video. 
 
Average Viewer Duration (AVD): The average time someone spends watching the video 
before clicking off. 
 
Believe it or not, both of these metrics are incredibly dependent on the intro. I’ll explain why. 
 

 
 
CTR In Relationship With Intros 
 
Simply put, when someone clicks on a video, they expect to see exactly what they clicked on. 
 
For example: 
 
 
Here is a video we uploaded, which got over 12,000,000 views in just a few months. Observe 
the title and thumbnail photo, and then watch the intro of the video: 
 
 
Man Horrified After Learning Girlfriend's Evil Secret
 
Instantly, we show exactly what the viewer clicked on. This is extremely important, otherwise, 
the viewer will feel deceived and “clickbaited”. 
 
Always make sure you confirm the title or thumbnail as quickly as possible in the intro. Ideally, 
the first clip the viewer watches is the exact frame from the thumbnail. 
 
AVD In Relationship With Intros 
 
Intro’s obviously play an incredibly important role in maintaining a high AVD on a video. 
 

 
 
Here is a video we uploaded 30 days ago that has nearly 7,000,000 views. By looking at the 
retention graph, we can see that the intro was key in outperforming previous videos.  
 
We made a better intro than normal, and as a result, the AVD remained higher than average 
throughout the entire video. 
 
The intro sets the ceiling for an entire video’s success. 
 
Psychological Understanding of Intros 
 
To create a good intro, it’s crucial to understand why an intro is “good” in the first place. 
 
Generally, a good intro will achieve 2 things: 
 
-Immediately hook the viewer with some form of spectacle 
-Give the viewer a strong reason(s) to watch the ENTIRE video 

I’ll break these down even further: 
 
Creating Spectacle 
 
If you look at some of the biggest videos on YouTube, all of them have some form of spectacle 
that separates their video from others. 
 
For example, in MrBeast’s video “Survive 100 Days In Circle, Win $500,000” – MrBeast decides 
to drop the house instead of starting the video with it already placed, in order to create a 
spectacle to catch viewers by surprise: 
 
https://youtu.be/gHzuabZUd6c?si=JJ-VsGcfvYkNl0ee&t=15 (0:15) 
 
In our case, we usually want to create a spectacle by shocking viewers in the intro. We want to 
take the concept shown in the title and thumbnail, and make it 100 times more extreme than 
what the viewer had initially prepared for. 
 
Take a look at this creator who reacted to our video: 
 
https://youtu.be/4UN5RxiIxlQ?si=63MIqrQoaRlbV7PF&t=130 (2:10) 
 
He is literally jaw-dropped by the information he just learned. I meticulously placed the fact that 
the couple had killed their own parents at the end of the intro, to leave viewers with information 
so extreme that they’ll have no choice other than to continue watching. 
 
If the viewers aren’t jaw-dropped like this when the intro finishes, then we haven’t done a proper 
job creating the intro. 
 
Strong Viewer Incentive 
 
It’s very important to ensure you leave viewers with a clear reason to continue watching.  
 
If we reveal too much information in the intro, then the viewer will have no reason to watch the 
rest of the video, as they’ve already digested all the interesting parts of the case. 
 
Generally, I like to build the intro with open-ended shock. This means that I’m able to shock the 
viewers with extreme facts about the case, but in a way that doesn’t spoil what's to come. 
 
Additionally, I like to showcase all the various types of footage we have in the video.  
 
For example: 
 

 
 
If our video follows this format, then it’s crucial to show visual footage from each of these 
segments in our video, so that the viewer fully understands what's to come– and hopefully feels 
the need to stick around as a result. 
 
Intro Formatting 
 
The best way to consistently make very good intros in a quick manner, is by nailing our various 
types of intro formats. 
 
If you look at some of our recent videos, you’ll see all of the intros follow a very similar format, 
usually starting with “This is [SUSPECT NAME]”. 
 
Below is a set of proven formats we have used on videos with millions of views. 
 
*You do not have to use these formats 1:1 for every intro you work on. These are simply 
recommendations. Every video is different* 
 
Format 1: General Dr Insanity Format 
 
Play a clip of moments leading up to the thumbnail frame 
 
Pause on thumbnail frame 
 
This, is [SUSPECT AGE] year-old [SUSPECT NAME]. 
 
Explain what happened before this moment. Example: 
 
Just hours ago, [SUSPECT NAME] brutally killed his wife, [WIFE’S NAME]. 
 
Play clips of police on scene discussing dead wife 
 
Explain what the suspect said happened, or why police think he’s suspicious. For example: 
 
At first, [SUSPECT NAME] would claim someone broke into their house, killing [WIFE’S 
NAME]. However, as officers further investigated the case, strange clues began to 
emerge that would paint [SUSPECT NAME], as the killer, of his own wife... 

 
Play clips of cops finding strange clues, and the suspect getting visibly frustrated while being 
questioned. End on a spectacle. 
 
INSANITY LOGO ANIMATION PLAYS. End of intro 
https://youtu.be/nqBgCvvcgzQ?si=r-4X5JER4hYO699e&t=81 
 
An example of this format being used in our video: 
 
Man Terrified After Learning Roommates Evil Secret
 
 
Format 2: Real time, Cop POV 
 
Explain the thumbnail clip in real-time: 
 
An officer arrives on the scene of a standard disturbance call. 
 
Explain how they learned about the disturbance: 
 
A neighbor reported shouting had come from the house, and quickly called 911. 
 
Foreshadow how the case is way worse than officers expect: 
 
The officer doesn’t realize it yet, but what would lie inside the home was MUCH worse 
than he could have ever prepared for... 
 
Play extreme clips showing the insanity of the situation. 
 
OPTIONAL: Reveal the suspect is a relative/friend/has a relationship to the victim 
 
Even worse, is that [VICTIM NAME] wasn’t just killed by a home intruder, like [WITNESS 
NAME] claims – instead, it would be someone much, much closer to [VICTIM NAME]... 
 
Play clips of killers, end on spectacle. 
 
INSANITY LOGO ANIMATION PLAYS. End of intro 
https://youtu.be/nqBgCvvcgzQ?si=r-4X5JER4hYO699e&t=81 
 
An example of this format being used in our video: 
https://youtu.be/KoEzb2eAFkQ?si=_qGmcDUfOIoLyBI_ 
 
 
 

Format 3: Real time, Suspect POV 
 
Play a clip of moments leading up to the thumbnail frame 
 
Pause on thumbnail frame 
 
This, is [SUSPECT AGE] year-old [SUSPECT NAME]. Just hours ago, he would brutally 
kill his roommate, [ROOMMATE NAME]. 
 
The cops have no idea, and are unaware of the meticulous planning that went into 
covering up this brutal murder... 
 
Play clips of killer pretending to be innocent 
 
Over the course of the next few days, detectives would do everything they could to track 
down the killer, and bring justice to [VICTIM NAME]. 
 
But, [KILLER NAME] wasn’t going to make it easy... as he had plans to completely get 
away with the murder... 
 
Play clips of killer swindling cops, and cops confused as to who could have done the crime. End 
on a spectacle. 
 
An example of this format being used in our video: 
 
College Killer Thinks He's Getting Away With It
 
Understanding The Final Outcome 
 
One special characteristic I have that often separates scripts I've written from others, is that I 
deeply understand what the final product will look like. When I’m writing, I'm envisioning what 
types of instrumentals will be playing, what type of edit ideas the editors will use, and how the 
complete video will look – not just the script. 
 
Here are a few things I'm always thinking of when writing the script: 
 
Instrumental Choice 
 
In a lot of my scripts, I will literally go and find an instrumental myself, for the editors to use (and 
in rare cases, produce the instrumental entirely). 
 

Now, by no means am I asking you to do this – however, I strongly recommend paying attention 
to the instrumental choice used in the intros of our latest videos. Take note of these, and try to 
remember them when creating a strong emotion in the intro. 
 
Tip: Sometimes, I will actually play an eerie instrumental on loop so that I can gear the emotion 
of the intro to fit the instrumental. Here are a few I listen to: 
 
https://youtu.be/Fn_2KclAeVU?si=DybPsV9O9AJbgbQf 
 
https://youtu.be/yK54v3pZdx0?si=nUtM2JUyp0vIMSlT 
 
https://youtu.be/R5z5j0KG4aE?si=p0RAdehH9xn9-JpD 
 
Editing Ideas 
 
Try to analyze our recent video’s intros and observe what types of edit ideas we use commonly. 
If you can remember these, you’ll be able to use these ideas yourself to build out the intro. 
 
I want you to find these yourself for learning purposes, but look for things like the various 911 
call graphics we use, the types of 3D animations we use, and the various Google Maps 
animations we implement. 
 
Here’s an example of a script I wrote with an influx of editor ideas. This video got over 
20,000,000 views but unfortunately got taken down: 
 
 
Parents Realize Their Daughter Is A Mass Murderer: Editors Notes
 
Checklist 
 
The following is a set of questions you should ask yourself before submitting any intro. It is 
critical to do this immediately, otherwise, you will forget the information you’ve learned in this 
guide. 
 
Hook & Spectacle: Have I hooked the viewer within the first few moments?  
 
For example, does the intro contain an unexpected or shocking element (a spectacle) that will 
grab attention immediately? 
 
Title/Thumbnail Confirmation: Does the intro quickly confirm the promise 
of the title and thumbnail? 

 The viewer clicked for a reason – have I shown them that exact scenario or subject right away 
so they don’t feel misled? 
 
Strong Reason to Watch On: Did I give the viewer a compelling reason to 
keep watching the entire video?  
 
By the end of the intro, the viewer should be intrigued and want to know what happens next 
(e.g. an unanswered question or an unresolved situation). Is there a clear element of mystery or 
suspense introduced? 
 
Avoiding Spoilers: Did I reveal just enough without giving away the whole 
story?  
 
Make sure you haven’t spoiled the ending or key twists in the intro. The intro should tease the 
content, not summarize it. Are the most shocking facts delivered in an open-ended way? 
 
Multiple Footage/Element Tease: Does the intro preview the different 
elements of the video to come? 
 
 If the story involves things like a 911 call, bodycam footage, interviews, crime scene photos, 
etc., have you included a glimpse of each (as appropriate) in the intro? This gives the audience 
a “preview” of the storytelling tools and keeps them curious about those segments. 
 
Final Moment Impact: Does the intro end on a dramatic high note 
(spectacle) just before the Insanity logo plays?  
 
The last line or visual of the intro should be the most intense or compelling moment that leaves 
viewers eager to continue. Ensure you marked the end of the intro clearly (with the logo or a 
transition). 
 
Tone and Emotion: Is the tone of the intro appropriate and engaging?  
 
Check that the emotional tone (suspenseful, eerie, urgent) matches the content. Would 
background music and editing enhance this intro? (If possible, imagine the kind of instrumental 
that might play – does your intro’s pace and mood fit with that music?) 
 
Pacing and Length: Is the intro concise and within the recommended 
length?  
 
Aim for roughly 30–45 seconds. If your intro script seems too long-winded, trim unnecessary 
details. Every sentence should either build the intrigue or push the story forward quickly. 
 

Clarity and Polish: Have I proofread the intro for clarity and errors? 
 
 Ensure the narration is clear and easy to follow. Check for any typos, grammatical mistakes, or 
confusing phrasing. Also confirm all names, ages, and facts mentioned are accurate and spelled 
correctly (consistency is key for credibility). 
 
Self-Audit: Would this intro make me want to watch the full video if I were a 
viewer?  
 
Put yourself in the shoes of someone who just clicked on the video. Does the intro fulfill what 
you’d hope to see and leave you excited to find out more? If you hesitate at all, refine the intro 
until the answer is yes. 
 
 
 
Good luck!!! 
 
-Nick 